one of the many benefits of a Zack trim
is how easily it can be heat form to
create custom curves arches and ellipses
using a straight piece of Azek trim to
create a curved profile is much more
cost-effective than cutting a curved
board from a large ASX sheet for this
demonstration we will be using a set of
electric heat blankets please contact
your a Zack rep for details about other
heat forming methods to get started
gather your supplies you will need
wooden blocks to cement boards the heat
blankets a form or jig to create the
curved shape and clamps set up your
heating area by placing the wooden
blocks on your work surface to protect
it from the high heat begin your project
by preheating the electric blankets to
do this place 1 cement board on the
wooden blocks on top of the cement board
place one heat blanket then lay the
second cement board down and finally
place the second heat blanket on top of
the second cement board allow the heat
blankets to preheat until they reach a
temperature of 290 to 300 degrees
Fahrenheit be careful that you do not
allow heated blankets to come into
direct contact with each other as this
could cause a short in the unit's when
the blankets have reached at least 290
degrees removed the top blanket and
cement board then place the Azek board
on the bottom heat blanket you will then
place the second heat blanket on top of
the asic board to insulate the heat
place the second cement board on top of
the heat blanket it will take
approximately 10 minutes for the Azek
board to heat to the proper temperature
for bending use a temperature gauge to
test board temperature periodically to
check if the board is ready remove
cement board and heat blanket then
gently lift the board when the heated
board has the look and feel of cooked
spaghetti it is ready to heat form do
not overheat the board as this can
result in a deformed surface or burn
marks when the proper temperature has
been reached removed the Azek board from
between the heat blankets and place it
around the jig starting from one side
you should use only gentle pressure to
shape the material around the curved
form as too much pressure may mark the
surface clamp the Azek board at each end
on the jib and allow curved board to
cool before removing this should take
about 10 minutes after cooling the board
will retain its new shape